[Music]
in this video let's learn the A to Z of
making a perfectly puffed up pita bread
like a pro the bread that is so soft and
chewy that you will definitely stop
buying the store-bought Vita breads to
make the pita bread we would need 2 cups
of all-purpose flour or maida 1/2 a cup
of whole wheat flour or Atta the reason
for adding whole wheat flour is that it
helps us to easily roll our dough once
it's proofed up which you will see in
detail in the steps ahead so along with
that we will also add 1 teaspoon of salt
and a tablespoon of sugar mix them up
add in a tablespoon of olive oil and
stir it up to finally to make it into a
dough we would need a cup of warm water
the ideal temperature of water for this
particular recipe should be around 90 to
100 degree Fahrenheit we would add our
East around a 2 teaspoon of yeast into
the water and mix it so that there is an
even distribution of yeast into out the
dough now I am using the instant variety
of East which does not require any kind
of activation and hence I am directly
adding it into our dry mixture but if
you're using the active dry yeast kind
of variety make sure to activate it
before you proceed with the recipe once
you add the water just combine
everything until you get our dough use
your clean hands and then mix it
together to form a dough this is going
to be a really sticky dough at this
stage but do not be tempted to add any
extra flour once you get everything
together that is all the dry mixture is
hydrated and combined just transfer it
onto your work table and I have taken
approximately half a cup of flour here
but I won't add it all at once just
sprinkle a bit and keep on kneading as
you can see my hands are full of dough
at this stage it's all sticky and messy
do not worry just keep on kneading you
will get that
about three to four minutes you can now
observe that my hands are getting clean
the dough has started coming together
and it is not sticking glove way it was
before so just keep on kneading and you
will get to the right consistency in
just about eight to ten minutes I'll
totally show you all the stages that I
have been going through in this video
since this is just a small quantity of
dough I am not using my stand mixer and
instead chose to knead it with my hands
but if you want you can use your stand
mixer just directly knead it for about
six to eight minutes and proceed with
the second step so as you can see the
dough is sticking to my hand even after
four minutes now but not that much like
the way we started with
[Music]
if at some point you get tired and just
cannot need it no problem just covered
with a tea towel and come back after
five minutes and start kneading so l
since I'm habituate it I am NOT tired at
this point and I'll just continue
kneading the dough what we are looking
for is a soft and tacky dough
yes it should be tacky not sticky not
dry Pat Aggie that is because the dough
should have some amount of moisture
content in it because this moisture is
what would get converted into steam and
this thing is what would be pushed up
and create a balloon or puffy pita bread
when it hits the hot oven or hot skillet
after ten minutes of kneading what I
have here is a soft and smooth dough
which is still sticky but not that much
like the way we started with the dough
should be so soft that I can easily pop
my finger in but when I try to pull it
out I can feel some resistance exactly
this is how you want your dough to be
[Music]
now that our dough is ready let's
proceed with the second step which is
proofing for which we will prepare the
bowl by adding up around a teaspoon of
oil and spreading it all around place
the dough on to it and then coat it with
the oil all around so that the dough
does not dry up cover it with a tea
towel and allow it for first proofing
which is to asked I also wanted to show
you guys the amount of flour that I used
for a dusting the flour while kneading
so we started with 1/2 cup but as you
all can see I might have used just
around 2 tbsp of it so be careful and
use just a required amount there after
to us you will see that your dough a
slice smooth it has doubled in volume
and it's all ready to begin with our
next step
but before that I just wanted to take a
moment to show you guys how to store it
if you wish to so we will use a
container like this and you can transfer
the entire dough and store it in an
airtight container like this in the
refrigerator for up to a week and use as
and when needed take just one or two
pitas whatever you need and then proceed
with that for the day keep the rest in
the refrigerator
my lunch menu for that day was some
pitas with veggie fillings falafel
hummus so I totally ended up using all
the dough on one single day yes me and
my partner we just finished it all off
so right now I'm just dividing the dough
into 10 equal parts just eyeballing it
but if you wish you can wait the entire
dough and then divide it accordingly
take one part of the dough just tuck the
sides in so that you get a perfect round
shape like this you don't have to be too
much strict or forceful on this just
giving it a round shape so that it is
easier for us to roll it out later so
just as the sides and and place it on
the worktop flatten it out and then
proceed with the next one so accordingly
shape all the balls and flatten it out
cover it with a tea towel for the moment
dust your work top with some dry flour
that is all-purpose flour and then roll
it into a disc thin disc to be precise
of around 6 inches in diameter now this
is another crucial step which is rolling
the dough thinly yes just like the way
how we make our full cast so thin so
that it puffs up immediately on contact
of heat that is the same logic that we
are going to apply over here as well
make sure to roll your dough evenly thin
without any cracks or tears so that
there's no chance of the steam escaping
while we are cooking it
place the rolled out dough onto the
baking tray that has been pre lined with
the parchment paper cover it with a tea
towel and allow it for second proofing
with just 30 minutes proceeding to the
next crucial step after 30 minutes of
second proofing which is to cook the
pitas just flip the pitas before you
place it on the hot skillet check that
as the site on which you were rolling
the top side is now touching the base of
our tava so in this 20 seconds you will
observe small bubbles popping up slowly
and gently just flip the pitas one more
time and within a matter of one or two
minutes you will observe that the pitas
are starting to puff and it's going to
get the shape of a balloon what is
happening here is that the moisture from
the tacky dough when it hits the hot
lava gets converted into steam which
then pushes the pitas upwards and gets
trapped and forms a pocket this is what
we call as oven spring in culinary terms
beautiful is it looking my eyes are just
popping out seeing the puff
[Music]
and that goes of a second beta
and that goes our third beta each and
every Peeta buff so beautifully I just
couldn't control the happiness if find
all the details of how to bake this beta
bread in an oven on my blog spices and
flavors calm the link for which is in
the description box and also find all
the science behind making a beautiful
puffed up beta over there sometimes it
so happens that the steam finds some way
to escape out and air the PETA's doesn't
puff in that case gently press the beta
with the help of your Ladin so that the
steam gets trapped inside and causes the
beta to puff up
[Music]
some other time it may happen that the
pita doesn't puff on its own in that
case just like a Parata we will have to
gently press the top portion of the pita
so that it puffs up like in this case
another thing to note is that you have
to be very careful and gentle while
flipping the pitas sometimes it happens
that the pitas puff up so beautifully
but do you end up punching a hole or her
making a slit and that way the pitas
then won't puff in that case I am just
gently tapping it with the help of a
tissue so that I can crap as much air as
possible and help it to puff and keep it
soft and don't get disheartened if your
pita doesn't puff at all sometimes they
just don't puff so the main crucial
reason for this is that the skillet was
not hot enough so I just showed you an
example here the one and foremost thing
that you have to note is that the
skillet has to be super hot otherwise
the pitas won't puff don't get
disheartened if your pitas doesn't puff
sometimes it just doesn't just that you
won't get a pocket for a filling but it
still is so soft that you can use it to
dip it into your hummus or any dip of
your choice and it also makes an
excellent base for pizza so if your or
Peter doesn't puff just lather some
pizza sauce some veggies of your choice
and make an amazing yummy pizza out of
it and coming to the last section of our
making homemade pita bread which is to
keep them wrapped in a tea towel so that
the steam is captured but he still the
pitas have room to breathe and stay warm
and soft
if you've wrap it in a cling wrap they
might get soggy and won't taste good so
this is an old grandmas trick that I'm
sure most of you guys must be already
doing it well and that was from our
lunch scenario that day just letting it
in the middle to show you the beautiful
pockets inside
[Music]
how gorgeous does that pockets look this
is a super soft and chewy bread that is
just perfect for any kinds of fillings
for that just look at the texture from
burden that day we chose to fill it with
some hummus some vanilla solids some
falafel fresh letters and garnished it
with the Zekey sauce it was such an
amazing lunch I must tell you I hope you
guys like these videos with my new
details that I share and you are not
fooled by all my blabbering comment
below and share your thoughts with me so
that I can know what you guys actually
want and change my pattern accordingly
if you like this video then definitely
hit that like button and subscribe to
spices and flavors for more such baking
and vegetarian related recipes and see
you soon with yet another one until then
this sushma signing off take care bye
bye
[Music]
you